The Dock Labs Non-Production License (the “DL-NPL”)
Copyright (c) 2024 Dock Labs AG.

This software and associated documentation files (the "Software") may only be
used in production, if you (and any entity that you represent) have agreed to,
and are in compliance with, the Dock Labs Subscription Master Services Agreement
(MSA), available at https://www.dock.io/master-services-agreement (the “Dock
Terms”), or other agreement governing the use of the Software, as agreed by you
and Dock Labs, and otherwise have a valid Dock Labs subscription that is being
utilized as intended and for its designated purposes. 

Subject to the foregoing sentence, you are free to modify this Software and
publish patches to the Software. You agree that Dock Labs and/or its licensors
(as applicable) retain all right, title and interest in and to all such
modifications and/or patches, and all such modifications and/or patches may only
be used, copied, modified, displayed, distributed, or otherwise exploited with a
valid Dock Labs subscription that is being utilized as intended and for its
designated purposes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may copy and modify the
Software without obtaining a subscription only for non-production development
and testing purposes. For the avoidance of doubt, non-production use solely
consists of internal use of this software within a non-production development or
test environment which uses fictitious data in non-durable identity credentials.
You are not granted any other rights beyond what is expressly stated herein.
Subject to the foregoing, it is forbidden to copy, merge, publish, distribute,
sublicense, and/or sell the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

For all third party components incorporated into the Dock Labs Software, those
components are licensed under the original license provided by the owner of the
applicable component.

If you have any questions or need further assistance, please contact
support@dock.io.
